# San-Franisco-Crime-Analysis

Objective San Francisco, a city mainly known for its technology scene, is no stranger to criminal activity. The rising wealth inequality and increasing population is increasing the rate of crimes in the city. This project aims to analyze the patterns in crimes occurring in the districts of San Francisco and try to predict the category of the crime based on the location and time of day. We also aim to generate insights

Data: Source: https://www.kaggle.com/c/sf-crime The dataset which has been sourced from kaggle contains incidents derived from SFPD Crime Incident Reporting system. The data ranges from 1/1/2003 to 5/13/2015. The training set and test set rotate every week, meaning week 1,3,5,7... belong to test set, week 2,4,6,8 belong to training set. It contains fields like:

Dates - timestamp of the crime incident
Category - category of the crime incident. This is the target variable you are going to predict.
Descript - detailed description of the crime incident (only in train.csv)
DayOfWeek - the day of the week
PdDistrict - name of the Police Department District
Resolution - how the crime incident was resolved (only in train.csv)
Address - the approximate street address of the crime incident
X - Longitude
Y - Latitude Out of these columns, the columns Category and Resolution are not present in the test data.
This data is a part of a competition on Kaggle and the results from this project will be submitted to kaggle for evaluation.

Business Questions: The insights generated by our analysis will be used to answer the following business questions:

Which districts have the highest crime rate so that action could be taken in those areas?
On what days is the crime rate high?
Which crime has the most number of unresolved cases?
